Let's start deploying our lambda function by going to cfn‑commands.txt to
see what commands we need to use in order to deploy this.
Now, in this case,
we're doing a bit more than what we were doing in the previous demo.
We're deploying a lambda function along with a variety of other resources,
including identity and access management resources to give our lambda
function permissions to go and access the Parameter Store and the
value that we just created inside of it.
So our command to deploy this will be a little bit more
complicated than in the last demo.
We'll use aws cloudformation deploy, then we'll do a \,
and now we're going to specify the template file the same way we were before,
in this case, lambda‑template.yml rather than a JSON file.
And then we'll need to give our stack a stack name the same way we did before.
In this case, I'll call this demo‑lambda‑stack,
and we can run one more \, and then we'll do a new flag called capabilities,
which will then pass in a value here to determine what
capabilities we should have when running this command.
We're going to need to pass in CAPABILITY_IAM,
and we'll also need to pass in CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM.
Now both of these will allow us to use AWS IAM roles and assign
them to our lambda function and also create some resources that
we need in the background to do this.
So with all of this written out, we can click Enter here,
and we could look for the deployed lambda function,
either running the commands below or going into the AWS CloudFormation
console and reviewing the output of our CloudFormation stack.
Once this is completed,
we could just run the aws lambda list‑functions command to see what's in
there and double check that it's been deployed correctly.
So we'll do that in a second.
So after our stack has been deployed, let's clear the screen.
Now if we wanted to list out all the functions in our account,
we could run the aws lambda list‑functions command.
However, if you have lots of lambda functions in your account,
this can give us quite a bit of detail back about all the
lambda functions that we have in here.
Another easier way is to go to the AWS console,
go to the Services section and look up lambda,
and then we can look for the lambda function we just deployed.
It should be sorted in the list of functions by the last modified amount.
Now if we go to this one, it looks like it was modified 1 minute ago,
so we can click on this here and get more details about the function.
In order to invoke this function,
we then need the function name to paste into this next command in the file.
So let's try that here.
Let's grab the entire function name with this pretty long name
with a bunch of gibberish on the end of it,
and we'll run aws lambda invoke,
and we'll do a \ here and hit Enter so we can pass in the function name,
and it's a long function name here, so we can do one more \ at the end of it,
hit Enter, and then we'll have an output file.
We'll just call this result‑file.txt where the value of the
function should output its result to.
Now you'll see that we have an executed status code of 200,
so that means it should've worked.
So let's check our result file.
It looks like the status code of this function is 200,
which generally indicates success,
and the body returned by the function is purple,
which means that it successfully returned the value that we
were storing inside of Parameter Store.
Now if we wanted to change this,
we wouldn't need to change anything in the
CloudFormation template or in our lambda code.
Instead, we could go to the ssm‑commands section,
and we could run a command like this one you see right here,
which is pretty similar to our previous commands to put a
parameter inside of Parameter Store.
I'll paste it in here,
and it will allow us to overwrite the value from purple to red.
The reason for this being that it has a value of red,
and it's also including the ‑‑overwrite flag to make sure that
we can replace purple with our new value.
Now that we've done this,
if we press up twice and we invoke the same lambda function one
more time and then look at the result file,
you'll notice that it's changed to red now instead of purple,
even though we haven't changed a thing about the lambda
function or about the CloudFormation template.
And what this allows us to do is control very specific parts
of our application outside of the context of CloudFormation
or the application code itself.
This can be really helpful for things like API keys and also other
sorts of credentials that you don't want to include inside your
source code or your infrastructure as code.
Now that you know how to use SSM,
you should be able to integrate it inside of your applications using
all the different kinds of SDKs that AWS offers.
In this case, in our lambda function, we were relying on something called boto3,
which is the SDK for Python to create a Simple Systems Manager
Parameter Store client and interact with it.
So hopefully now you're confident enough to start using
Parameter Store inside of your own applications.
So we went through quite a bit in this module.
We looked at infrastructure as code and some CloudFormation basics,
as well as other infrastructure tools that we might use inside of AWS,
and some security best practices ranging for making sure we have the right
permissions set on our cloud infrastructure pipelines,
as well as to make sure that we're using things like SSM Parameter
Store to move secrets out of our infrastructure,
in our infrastructure as code, and out of our applications.
Now, after that,
we went hands on and worked with CloudFormation inside of the AWS console,
as well as working with Parameter Store and something like AWS Lambda.
Keep in mind that this is meant to be a really high level and quick and
dirty introduction to CloudFormation and Parameter Store.
If you want to learn more about CloudFormation,
I highly recommend looking at other courses here on Pluralsight,
as there's a lot more to learn about different
kinds of CloudFormation resources,
how you can parameterize things with CloudFormation,
and a variety of other topics.
In the meantime, we'll keep learning about other DevOps tools inside of this course.